Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that's sick and tired of picking bits of press on BBC beard out of its teeth.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
And I'm a charming fascinated corsage of Christmas Bush on a cannibal for this particular seasonal episode.
So we are here watching series one, episode 9 by some reckoning, which is called Mission of the Dariens, and it is the sort of contractual obligation episode.
I think that everyone had to have Joan Collins on at some point.
Everything has had to have Joan Collins.
We've already featured Auntie Joan on the Fingerfinger.
Batman.
We called her something.
We've also had her on the fingering of turning finger foot.
God love it.
And that's quite a seminal piece.
And yeah, she pretty much is page 2nd patron saint after silver black of our podcast.
Yes.
And certainly there was a little bit of conflict between her and our Barbara.
More on that story later. more of that later.
So I have to confess that I have no memory of ever seeing this before.
Neither do I, and I watched it this afternoon.
Okay, I saw it in the initial rung.
It was the 1st one to be recorded in 75.
It was actually 22 of a run.
So quite late. written 3 days before shooting started.
So script was handed in by Johnny Byrne on the 7th of January.
Recordings began on the 10th and went for approximately 2 weeks.
It has 5 major new sets.
It has, I think, 42 moving cast members, and I'll have to look it up and get about 17 speaking customer members.
It's actually the most expensive one they've done since breakaway.
Right, okay.
Which makes you think that, honestly, everybody had a copy of Susan Sontag's notes on camp because this is the definer of what camp is.
And I remember this as a boy, and yes, we had this in 75, 76, 76, because I remember ABBA, Ring, Ring, and SOS was in the charts, so and I had the disc.
So, yeah, it was about 76.
And at the time, I thought, this is nonsense.
And it was a nine-year-old charge, you think. without knowing the key terms, we didn't know post-modernism yet, but we certainly knew what camp was.
I actually for the thought it felt like a Batman episode and yet I'm really interested to hear what you all think on this new viewing because I've had to ameliorate my views somewhat disappointingly.
It's better than I remember.
It is kind of amazing, and it does do that thing that Space 1999 does. which is it fills the universe with things that are terrifyingly horrible. and camp Twattery, obviously, and things that are ancient as well.
Enough of Joan.
Sontag defined camp, and it really was what we called postmodernism before the 80s or the 70s.
But she said, the keynote is it must take itself immensely seriously.
So Batman set the tone.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
With Adam and Burt.
And Joan.
Yes, in one in 2 Eps, whatever.
But because it's still National Theatre and Royal Shakespeare cast.
And actually, Joan, I'll hold my powder, but I was surprised watching this.
I think she's astoundingly good in it.
It manages that whole thing of if it takes itself seriously, then it's camp and like Barbarella, which doesn't.
This is the campus thing I've ever seen.
I'm right here. store my line breaded.
All right, so we're going to go in, and as usual, we have a keyword or phrase, it's a phrase this time, and I'm going to say the phrase in a minute, and then the next time after that that I say the phrase is the time that Richard will press play on the Blu-ray.
And the phrase is eat the rich before they eat you, I guess.
And so here we go.
Eat the rich.
And we're doing it on the ch.
How gorgeous.
Oh, this model is absolutely good.
Do I get to be a fanboy about the model?
Oh, yes, please.
Look at the size of that one, doctor.
That was awkward.
It was written as being 50 miles long by 2 wide, but Martin Bauer built, I believe, 5 to 7 new models, and the script is altered because everyone was so impressed.
It was the biggest fricken thing.
It was 14 feet long.
Even Victor would say, I can't manage that at a party.
He could, though.
He'd be underestimating himself, yeah.
It's quite lovely and it also looks like something you could quite nicely put on a coffee table because it's got legs.
Yes.
Yeah, but it also feels very Stanislael M. It feels very much that kind of Russian middle European.
Oh, Babs doing Babs.
Nick saying, I don't have a line.
Sandra saying, I don't even get to speak.
There's Kylie Minogue in an early role.
I just get the 2 doctors.
So I have to say, you know, rummaging through this episode tonight, today, to find a screen.
I know it's gone.
It's unbelievably beautiful.
It really is.
It does look like it was designed and built by the people who built Alpha, though.
And of course, it was. sure fair enough.
Yeah, but it is beautiful, you know.
And in fact, it's about 8 minutes before we even meet anyone else, maybe slightly longer.
Um, and heaps of that 8 minutes is just beautiful model shop.
It is shockingly beautiful.
It also has 3 map paintings by Keith Wilson.
Keith Wilson designed all the outfits and Jones hair paint.
And Tom will get to that in a bit.
And something I just want to note that because a meme has been doing the rounds about an episode of Star Trek where Ahura is asked to take over navigation and does so and it's just a normal everyday thing and that was amazing in the 60s.
We're sending most of our ranking officers over in a shuttlecraft here.
And Carno and Sandra Benners have been left in charge of alpha.
And again, it is not played as this is anything exceptional.
They are trained professionals, and they're going to do it.
And, you know, the plot's not going to follow them.
No.
But it is, you know, it is it is presenting this image of the future.
And, you know, here they are in the command positions, in Paul, in Paul and Koenig's positions as we're on.
Peach Melbourne Alert, on panels of Moon Bay Sulphur, and Nick is always on gorgeous.
Sam Nelly to his friends.
Isn't he beautiful?
The Eagles, the Eagles are always on Yellow Chartreuse Alert.
Isn't it beautiful?
Just more of those shots?
Three years before Star Wars, boys?
Oh, two years.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, it looks amazing.
It just looked, it looks as good as anything we've seen since.
Yeah, absolutely.
But don't forget, these boys worked on Star Wars.
Yes.
It's a massive aperture.
Yeah, no, she's not on screen yet.
Well, it's black. so that we can mat the angle onto it.
Yeah.
I'd also love that you can absolutely crack your skull on everything except that lovely bit of padding that's above the pilot's heads.
Yeah, it's never hit. isn't that gorgeous?
isn't that beautiful?
And just the sense of scale, like the sense of how massive everything is.
And it manages to sell it, even in this era on this...
We saw your budget.
Well, I do remember tellies.
I mean, you had lovely parents, so I imagine you had big tellies.
And I remember, you know, rich friends had a big telly, but we never saw it at this scale or Blu-ray and they were little.
And of course, I mean, that's the most brilliant thing about it, isn't it?
That it was shot on film, and now we can appreciate it in high definition on our giant ludicrous tellies.
And it was beautiful. because like the models were so detailed.
Yeah, yeah.
It still looks good.
Despite the fact it was being bombed for...
Tiny TV.
Yeah, yeah. a postage stamp.
But that was Jerry's attitude, even from Supercar in 1960, shoot it on film, upscale the effects, make it the best thing we can possibly do.
It still gives me a fissure in the ventricles to think that Sylvia and Jerry could not continue their professional relationships because everything they did is wonderful together.
And you have to wonder, if they had continued their professional relationship, would George Lucas have hired them?
Probably.
Well, he tried to.
Well, so Harry, you remember Harry Saltzman took Sylvia to lunch and she said, in her inimitable way, you just want my boys, don't you?
And she didn't let them, but 2 of them went to work on Kubrick's 2001 anyway.
And Nick Alder is one of them, so is Brian Johnson.
Holy shit, these are. the campus thing you've ever seen.
Unbelievably great.
I mean, really.
I mean, this owes a lot to Tzar Doz.
It owes a lot to the 1920s vision, St.
George Bernard.
Sure, of the future we'll all be and Aldous Huxley.
We'll all be in togas and wearing laurel wreaths and drinking soma, but we'll be in high tech domes and pretty much, you know, taking pills to procreate.
I mean, I don't know if this is intentional, but one of the things about the Greek and Roman gods is that they are cunts and they are...
Awful, awful to people.
Well, they're bored.
Yeah, yeah, because they're bored and they don't give a shit about anyone.
Guest star is Joan, but the others are guest artists.
But only there's only one star.
So, yes, that's right.
So the other guest artists, and we'll talk about them.
Firstly, we have Paul Antrim here as Lowry, who already looks nervous because he is...
For a reason, because he's the only person we don't know.
And he's a purple sleeve.
Yeah.
So he is going to die.
He's not in this tight 3 shot of 3 of the main actors.
Now, I tried to find something that we might have known that he was in and all I could come up with is he is in an episode of the famous 5 with friend of the podcast, Gary Russell.
I think he's in the Tomorrow People.
Oh, he may well be horribly wrong about that.
Yeah, yeah.
But he's got a very English fan.
I'm thinking, I remember thinking, is that the best you can do in an international space station?
Oh, that's right.
Canon folder.
Which episode of the famous?
I don't know.
I don't know The one where they get trapped in a lighthouse and George has to push her proclivities. of the children.
George, we should mention probably the 1st trans character in children's sleep.
Maybe that I can think of.
Could I mention the Japanese title for this episode?
Oh, please.
And I'm, I'm going to sets way people who ate poor people.
It has an exclamation point, so I'm going to say it this way and hold the microphone slightly further away.
Coming of the huge space town.
Oh, we all did.
I mention the director.
It's it's Avengers favourite and stalwart Ray Austin.
Best stunt director we ever had on ITC in all these shares.
Well, I have a quote from Ray, which I will feature later in the episode.
And I just want to say, in that shot, we had just now of Helena and Lowry outside the ship, you could very clearly see his hands.
I just want to say. his hands are frequently visible.
We will discover that he doesn't have, you know, on average people have 10 fingers.
Yeah, well, that's the fun thing. like on average humans have less than 2 arms.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So he's lost the end of his finger.
I did try and find out whether that was Paul, but it isn't.
It's some guy.
Like they had some stand-in guy.
There's a shot where it's just his hand close up and where there is very clearly a...
Dave Allen, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Not quite as much as Dave Allen had lost, but like a fair amount.
Apparently the the bumbling half-wits on level 7 don't know that amputations aren't heritable genetically, but whatever.
Like there's poor people who get nose jobs so their kids won't have their...
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
So the forced perspective long corridor is not a success, is it?
Oh, hang on. 1975 map paintings.
I love it.
In 1975 it would have been.
Do you think?
Yeah, I think so.
Because look, look, when I watched Doctor Who and the Daleks on the Crummy 2 volume VHS at my local library, I thought those corridors went on for ages. and then I got the DVD.
Okay, fair.
Fitfire has a lot to answer for.
So for a while, I thought he wasn't going to get any lines because there's a very obvious moment where he interacts with Koenig earlier on and he doesn't say anything and now he does get lines and he also gets to hum a wandering minstrel, I, a man of shreds and patches.
Back to Alan Carter's...
Whimpering.
Yes.
Perhaps he's really doing it, isn't she?
Yes, very Barbarella.
So these are mutants, aren't they?
Like they're people.
Well, they're small people.
Yeah, the reason they chuck her in is because she's got the facial wound.
No?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
They say mutant.
Like, it is very clearly.
No, but they're all mutants.
No, no, no.
Well, as far as far as the day signs upstairs are concerned. all mutants.
So, like, they, and these characters have been around for years.
So why have they, like if they've just been on the run the entire time.
Yeah, so I wondered about that.
And that's...
Well, I get the impression with her.
It's because she can't speak.
That is her.
So she can't speak because she's not being paid to speak.
We should pause for David Bowie and Brian Eno.
So who wants to go and see Interstellar double 555.
Oh, funk it back together, yeah.
They look great.
So from Moon 02.
Do you remember Moon Zero 2 with Catherine Shell?
It's the western space. gorgeous.
It's British and it's crap and I love it.
I have to say that I thought that Barry Morse did some awesome gently lowering himself to the ground after being shot by a laser beam.
Yeah, you don't want to rush that person.
Yeah.
Are you fucking serious?
Ray, I'm too old for this shit.
That's right.
Yeah.
Look, you can even see the scoff marks on the leatherete, can't you?
That's not you, Alan.
I'm talking about the sofa.
He's mostly leather at in the 90s from then on.
I mean so gorgeous.
She's only 32.
Nick Tate has surprisingly good skin for an Australian from before the slip slop slacking.
That is true.
Well, he's got a lot of pancake on, actually.
He does.
Of course, our Nick grew up in the sun.
Isn't he cute?
He's like a tiny Matt Berry.
That doesn't seem to be a BBC press on beard, that one.
There are some hotties in this if we're going to do the hottie list.
But it's very Tsar Doz.
Babs, again, is really the only one convincing me.
So Babs has such a great range of reactions this episode that I was spoiled for choice for an image to put on the website.
I mean, I was kind of jokingly say, so like there were 22 moving parts, as Richard said earlier, was Babs, one of them, but definitely...
She's thoroughly startled at several points during this episode.
What you were saying about camp earlier, Richard, reminded me of a meme that goes around every year around this time, which is Michael Kane and a Muppet Christmas Carol.
And it's, okay, Michael, this is a Christmas film.
So you can have a bit of fun with it.
I'm going to play as serious as a car crash.
And the thing is he does.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's the right call.
That's the right call.
As people say, a Muppet, the Muppet Christmas Carol works so well because Michael Kane treats the, treats the Muppets as fellow actors.
Muppet Treasure Island works so well because Tim Curry treats himself as a Muppet.
I try to remember the caper one with Diana Rig, which I saw at the cinema.
I don't know that she necessarily gave them the suspension of disbelief that they...
Okay, spot the hotties.
So here's the 1st of our guest stars, and he is called Robert Russell, and he plays the Caber in Terror of the Zygons.
Of course he does.
And he is, of course, a significant religious figure in Blake Seven's Cygnus Alpha.
It's him and Pamela Salem running the show.
I was thinking I'd seen him recently because I was checking out.
And in high def.
Yes.
And then high def, because I was checking out the various new model work and effects and things that makes time squad actually more exciting.
Oh my goodness.
Stop it.
Excite me.
Yes.
Any further.
So, yes, lots of sets, but they really could have all been taken from the 5 doctors.
Gallifry's death zone. couldn't they?
Dark about to come around the corner.
I mean, it does have sort of excitingly angular sort of walls and ceilings and stuff like that.
There's a bit of circular...
Well, it's funny you touch on German expression, isn't it?
Because it actually does look very manal and the lighting and all the rest of it.
But Ray Austin was, you know, not just a buffy stunt guy.
He really loved film. and cinema and the history of.
I think he's a great director.
What do you think, Grenton?
Oh, absolutely.
We know his work quite well now, don't we?
Yes, yeah.
And I think part of what makes him a successful director.
So, look, wait, Joan Collins's vagina is here to check on the page.
Oh my goodness.
Here she is entering.
Do you think those thighs have ever actually met?
So they are, you'd have to get a taxi.
Really?
So I haven't even got to her eyes yet.
We're not seeing them in this scene.
I mean, it is literally...
Oh, it's not...
We can almost see at least one eye.
They never touch.
Oh, hello.
Ray Austin said that Barbara Bain lost her shit when she saw how short Joan Collins's skirt was.
What?
Because she gets a skirt later.
She does.
And it's a cavewoman...
Valerie Leonie...
It's not short.
It's not as short as hers.
But then again, she's got less to lose.
And Tony Curtis hasn't investigated the proceedings.
She went to complain to Jerry and Sylvia and said that she wasn't going to have it.
And she was told, no, for God's sake, this is why we got Joan Collins in.
So she can flash it and you can stay nice.
Hello.
Yes.
I've got to get some Christmas bush.
It's interesting you say, Richard, that this was written in about 3 days because just because I feel this is so chock full of ideas and maybe other space 1999 episodes feel like they're less full because they've had like 2 weeks to sit down and trim the fat, as it were.
Johnny actually spent longer developing it.
Right.
But, you know, here we've got, we've, yeah, we've got Metropolis.
We've got a live, we've got like Frederick pool generation shit.
Although alive was after this, wasn't it?
This is sort of late 74 when he wrote it.
Oh, okay, right.
But we've definitely got Aldous Huxley, and we've definitely got the visions of the 1920s, you know, with the Greek myths is that she really is better than you think she's going to be.
Oh, yeah, I think she's stunningly good in this.
Astonishing.
She takes it seriously.
She said, it's the easiest part in the world.
All they had to do was water me twice a day, darling.
And she's referring to her bush.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's also kind of swelling green as well.
Oh, totally.
Well, the sci-fi until Lucas and Spielberg was dark.
This was actually the lightest thing done in SF and, you know, after trek until the Lucas boy.
But she, she's compellingly, I really don't remember her being this good. she's great in the Star Trek episode.
Like, I think she's great. she's brilliant.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You're talking about sitting on the edge of Forever?
The one that won the awards.
Well, that actually made her name in the US.
I thought it was other films like Girl in the Red Velvet Suite.
Oh, okay.
But amongst television audiences.
It was her on Star because that thing was just shown all the time.
She is bloody good in the episode.
She's actually good in everything, you know.
You're sex there. you know, underwear wearing in the back of a cab.
The stud hadn't been out yet or the bit.
So she hadn't made her career watch.
Yeah.
There was sex.
There was hair. lipstick.
We should know because we were there because we were.
They're lucky bitches.
But honestly, I wanted to just scream my way all through this and I certainly will.
They're sick.
These people are sick.
But she's not Cloris Leachman.
I just wonder what this would have been like if Mel Brooks had directed it.
But do you find, I find her compelling.
Oh, no.
She's stunning, and you can't look away from her.
I believe in, I believe the story when she tells it to me. beautiful.
Aren't those Matte paintings?
I think they're just paintings.
They look like, yeah, they're painted on glass.
Yeah, and they are done by Keith Wilson by hand with a ruler and sticky tape. and I can't do any better.
I've tried back in the day.
They are very obviously paintings, but they are beautiful, but I like that they have done.
No, no, no, no.
That wasn't a criticism.
No, I know.
Oh, hello.
Which one do you like?
I've already found 2 I quite like.
Yeah, no, I've got one with big, big, fluffy hair, who I think is kind of hot.
I think they're all standing around in the...
Him without the wig.
The mosh pit and the old gray whistle test or anything that Jimmy Savile we not talk about anymore.
I do have a cast member to point out, but I don't think we've seen him yet.
Well, we have.
He's in the background, but he gets a better shot later.
This is Aubrey Morris, who we know as the captain of the Golga Frinch and B.R.
That's right.
Really?
He's also quite extraordinary in the prisoner, Patrick McCain.
Dance of the Dead when he's plays exactly the same part.
And he's and he's pretty much just an NTC RSC stalwart of significant. he's got his own hair in this episode.
He does have his own hair and he does it quite well.
Where's his gin and tonic?
Oh, by the way, can we talk about the collar?
So do you recognise the collar fans of Carry on Cleo?
It's actually from the Cleopatra film, but it was also reused in Carry on Clio.
So I think that if I had seen this as a child, I would have been fucking traumatised by the way she's killed.
It's really good, isn't it?
Children are, however, have an accept and very accepting level of base cruelty.
I just thought, oh, yeah, playground.
But don't you think it's like the lights?
like, it's the fact that it's not clear what's happening to her?
It also takes forever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And her. doesn't take you a lot as on on the crew member.
But like this, it just, it takes a good minute for her to die.
It's just drawn out.
It's just it's just torture. horrible.
There's Bab startled by the state of affairs.
Yeah, that would be a good choice for episode image.
I, it was certainly a contender.
And yet, then we just get a slight, a slight regular.
You can't quite see what's happening.
Some kind of rollback and mix there happening, isn't there, or something?
No, is that...
Well, yeah, if you can't, it's a great way to get rid of William Hartnell, too. what you were up for.
Now, we're about to see the cast member I was talking about, I think, when we cut back to Babs and Lowry.
And mini Matt Berry.
He's off.
I think that's him for this episode.
He runs, he hunts.
He brings that fucker down.
Now, Nick is doing a great deal with very little.
Go on.
The guard on the left holding onto Lowry is an actor called Ron Tar. would later become a regular background performer in EastEnders, better known as Big Ron.
Who almost helped Doctor Who in the charity special dimensions in time.
How about that?
That's Nick Lizzy, semi-nude, like that.
He was not.
He had a big coat on because the footage has come to light.
So, I mean, this is great.
This guy's great.
Yeah, yeah, he's really good.
You are so fucking dead.
Now watch the hand.
That's not his hand.
That's clearly a hand of someone who's lost a finger.
And then when we see the hand in shot with him, it's just his finger sort of taped away.
Yeah, which, you know, why didn't they do that earlier on?
Yeah, he's really doing it for me.
Oh, yes.
Well, let's just also how his left hand is concealed behind the door so you can't see.
Although now you can see it. fine.
It's very long, isn't it?
Like they're just torturing us.
They're tormenting us here.
Yeah, it's just the brightness of the light and the just the fact that it's just not defined.
Which of the locals do you think went nuts with the coloured sticky tape on the doorknobs?
I just needs cheering up.
Do people want a murder booth with decorated hands?
Thank you.
And so they're dematerialising them and then feeding them to Joan Collins later.
Is that what's happening?
Pretty much.
Well, I mean, you know that bush doesn't pollinate itself.
I think he's got a BBC press on hair.
The one on the right.
Yeah, the one on the right.
It's just got terrible hit, terrible beat.
But it's getting very Barbarella at this stage.
Actually, you know what?
That could be his own hair because I did a school play once where I had to be a K. I did a school play where I had to be a K person.
I used to have long hair and they could not crimp or tease my hair.
It just wouldn't, it was so fine.
It would not style. yet now. yet.
Yeah, oh, it still couldn't.
You can definitely tease it now. cries.
Isn't Aubrey Morris marvellous.
You can tell he didn't get on with his mother, can't you?
It's just something not quite right.
He's such a great actor She was going to be on the A arc.
Also, I don't, you've never watched those hands.
I don't want that all over my gorgeous matte lip gloss and the right number of fingers, which is it does.
She's got a great manicure.
Don't kill her.
That's known as a French polish.
It's pretty good, is it?
No, it is.
I've had that.
Yeah.
It's when they leave a little bit of white at the ends.
Yes.
She's, um...
You think she's seen enough space to actually not be phased?
Imagine if it was Lala Ward.
Just be yawning.
Oh, and she got...
I was going to say, she got all of that from Diner.
It was Diana Riggs. just be looking at it, thinking, well, I've got better legs than Joan Collins, and they meet in the middle. funny that.
Tell Joan, I want to know her to know it was me.
Also, speaking of camp, Neiman, who looks like Zeus, only less sort of, he's kind of the Zeus that you have at home.
Yeah.
He's a pretty...
Yes.
And Samus Burgess, whom we know from heaps of crap.
Heaps of crappy things.
I'll read it to you if you're interested.
Isn't that beautiful?
It does look like the cover of a, you know, nebula award-winning novel from the 1950s, I think.
Um, Nieman, of course, was um, the name in Johnny Burns' original pitch for the Ark of Infinity was.
Ah, Doctor Who.
It was the time of Nieman.
Well, there's Proctaneme and then...
Yeah, yeah.
So that's that's basically his torrant.
That's a beautiful show.
That's so gorgeous. why it works so well.
Poor old Dennis Burgess died in 1980.
Well, James is from 1980.
I remember in the professionals.
And but he's also in the elephant man.
He's a pretty good actor.
It's a bit sad.
But yeah, he was driving to his home in Chesham when he suffered a massive heart attack at the wheel and bit off the road.
Oh, goodness.
So sad about that.
He was only 54.
He's actually a bloody good actor And I just like that he really keeps the reins tight between, as you say, Jupiter Zeus like authority.
And Cap is a row of tits.
Also on the tents that they come in.
Hey.
Also, I do love the Alco pops on display.
Have we got to that yet?
No, that's...
That's our race memory.
No, it's not.
It's Picardi Breezer.
I remember being fascinated by the food colouring in those little kind of squeezable plastic things with the pointy lids from the 1970s and that's all that reminded me of, particularly when it goes in his hair later. spoilers.
I just was expecting them to put on a heavy, heavy load of dishwashing.
Yes, they're like tide pods, aren't they?
I mean, you know, when you get DNA in liquid form, it really doesn't look much like that, does it?
I love that set.
I mean, it honestly feels like we're in the Seagrim building or the lever house.
Oh it's wonderful. is incredible, isn't it?
Or Keith Wilson.
With that, you know, it's not frosted glass.
It's like ribbed.
It's called broadline glass, yeah.
Okay, I can go jump here.
And then and then Jackson Pollock's gone and spoofed all over the walls, which looks great.
And I'm loving the extras.
There's a few bong girls in this because we always do that.
So, you know, the story, don't you?
What this is based on?
It was Johnny Burns, one of his favourite scripts of all time.
Yeah, I know.
And his favourite for 1999 and really actually well received at the time, I guess, the filters were there and they didn't see that.
It was gap, is it?
Anyway, um, you but it was based on, I keep wanting to say Erolinus or Argentinus, because I've flown on Argentina Airlines and I can see why they end up eating each other.
Yes.
But there was that crash in 72.
Do you remember?
It was the Uruguayan rugby team.
Yeah, that was what the film aligned.
I think I've seen that.
I think I've seen that X-Hamster video, but yeah, they crashed in the Andes Mountains, and after 10 weeks, 16 survivors after 45 passengers were rescued.
Very full bellies.
Very full and a taste for a taste for adventure.
Man flesh.
Yeah, stunning.
And in fact, they said that after a 1000000 years of civilisation, we committed atrocities in less than 10 weeks, much like this podcast.
And look, I think Bab's skirt is at least as short.
It is pretty short.
Because that was her objection.
I think she came out with the scissors.
So Ray does claim that the that the crew used to call her Barbara Payne..
Now, is that actually true?
Well, that's what he claimed.
Well, you know what?
I'm not going to deny.
Also, just to defend the Uruguayan rugby team and then massive thighs.
Yeah, they were the H.
To be fair, they were released.
They was a lot of dead Thomas.
They didn't actually kill one another.
No, they didn't put them into the sanitiser bay, isn't they?
into the hand sanitiser.
Well, yeah, yeah, what is that line from Rent Dwarf?
The only the only record we have is Scott's diary.
He's hardly likely to say, I beat Captain Oates over the head with a frozen usky and then a tip.
Yeah, yeah, with something gravy.
There was something else.
Have you seen the size of the thighs on those rugby players?
I mean, you don't, I get pickish just watching.
No, no, no.
I think that that'd be pretty great.
I think it'd make a mouthful for everybody.
Yeah, yeah.
Likely sauteed.
Yeah. bit of garlic.
And it was apparently Joan Collins's entire idea to go to chamobilism because she said, well, look at my career, darling.
And also.
And also, did I mention Tony Curtis stunning.
And and, you know, around the around the time this was written, we were in a cycle of exploitation cannibal films coming out of Italy.
Yeah, actually, who's putting the money into?
Dario Zent, yeah.
Yeah.
And half of the money is, yeah, cannibal, yeah.
No, it's Italian.
Well, 6 a one.
I mean, in a sense, it's a little bit like the savages, Doctor Who's the savages.
Yeah, yeah.
In that it is just about these rich people, um, emiserating and actually eating the poor.
Emiserating, emiserating the boy.
Sorry.
I'm not sorry at all I'm really...
Should I mention that a former Miss International?
I didn't even know there was such a thing of 1972.
Um, Linda Hooks, doesn't everyone, is one of the gals in the in the furry bikinis.
And here we have the boys.
Hello, boys, in the Moon Zero 2.
One of the hats is from UFO, my all-time favourite.
And we're going to get to something really interesting soon-ish, but do you think?
That sort of posh boy from Eton, who, oh, I've got a story.
Okay.
Eaton?
It was a mess.
If I could mention something about Aubrey Morris, who we just saw.
He continued to have a long and distinguished career.
And he left us...
I had a long and English career.
Well, that too.
But he left us in 2015.
His last credit is actually for the sitcom.
It's always Sunny in Philadelphia.
So he was acting.
He was appearing in popular programs, but also films such as knee high PI.
I think he must have moved to California and just done a job every 2 or 3 years to pay the mortgage.
Yeah, McNe schooler.
Yes, yeah, yeah. agent who doesn't know the meaning of the word no.
A good bit of buffo from the...
Yeah, this is pretty cool.
From the stretch jersey, boys.
I think Alan actually connected there.
The cabe is doing a bit of a job, but I say Paul and Alan are doing...
You go, Paul.
There you go.
Actually, that was a great... pretty good.
And that's why it's good to have Ray Austin.
Yeah, yeah because Rey knows how to do the stunt and how to shoot the stunt.
No, that's not Joan.
That's a bond, girl, extra, just handing the pieces of paper.
She's just sitting there and Victor's really pretending to look at those trace paper sheets, not at his next party.
Yeah, this is this is the scene that canonises that victory is gay. don't know about that.
Why is he not looking at her bum and she walks off?
Even I come.
Wait for him. just subtle.
Now he's looking.
He's a professional.
Yeah, no you're quite right.
Victor's sexuality is yes.
It's just sexuality is passed behind on this couch.
Or absinthe.
And we have some chairs direct from your sitting room.
Well, I was going to say the Galliframe presidential office.
It is too.
It's the same Circa 1978.4532.
Yes.
So this is a very, very long and boring way to discover that they're cannibals.
Yeah, it could have been, is it?
Yes.
Well, you know, I think some people who advocate against eating meat would describe would describe the processing of meat in such the same way.
No, no.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. exactly right.
And in fact, like they have to add an extra thing to make them even worse later on.
Oh, the...
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, the organ transplants that are happening as well.
I'm not just eating your organs, we're also transplanting them.
They're not they're not even doing nose to anus eating.
No.
If you would like to do nose to anus eating, my phone number is.
You should mention Russell, who's playing the now deceased?
Stop it. just behave all of you.
And he's a lovely lad, and he died in 2008.
I don't really like reading out that they're all dead, but the bloke who went into the mixmaster with the missing finger, he's in the Avengers, he's in the Sweeney, he's in this, he's in Blake 7.
And of course, he's in power of the Daleks.
Oh, is he Rezno?
Oh, wait, are we certain about that?
No, I'm talking about the cable.
Yeah, yeah. the K-bop.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Not Paul Antrim, but the other guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm just looking at a very young photo.
Sorry, boys.
So yes.
No, the Caber is, of course, in Power of the Daleks.
There's Big Ron.
Tear of the Zygons.
But he's in everything we own him.
And he is now punching Nick Tate in the stomach.
Well, it's a job.
Yes.
Why is there a painting of Barbara Good on the wall?
No, it's...
So, Nieman, I think this is really great.
And one of my favourite things is John's reaction, Koenig's reaction. to discovering that they gave the people, the survivors on level 7 a religion, like he can't think of just about anything worse that you could do.
It's a good idea, it's really good. really like it.
Yes.
And so here we now get the scene where we confront Joan Collins with the ethical issues raised by her diet.
And Diana Dawes week.
She's great.
Yeah, she's really good.
I can actually see Joan having this very same conversation with Jackie.
Any particular point, including after Jackie has died.
But Jackie, we have careers.
We have to keep living.
Yeah, we have to keep it up.
Is it the fly?
I wonder if we've just got the same listener that we have. one in the bath.
Also that really is really short, isn't it?
It's really short.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I really have very little doubt about her inclination or religion.
She's just she's right there.
Hemline's so high, the whole world is...
She's a little woman.
Yes, she's a little woman.
She's actually quite quite a wee thing.
You know, I don't think it's any more revealing than her outfit has the siren in Batman.
And arguably more comfortable because it's not made of plastic.
Yes, this.
You gave them a god.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, and no, it wasn't Brian Blessed?
No.
But I mean, it's now the point where we discover they're kind of white supremacists, essentially, like they're super evil racists as well.
Other other white meats.
Yeah, yeah.
Opioid heiresses. we know which way they voted this year, don't we?
Jill Stein. to eat themselves.
Yes.
Oh, so, and now we discover about the Gene Banks, also known as... the Alco the Alco Pops.
I've got a theory about the American elections.
Can I throw it in while we...
Okay, I'm going to put it out there.
I don't think Trump will be here this time next year.
Do you think someone will shove his head through a wall full of alcohol?
Well, I'm told by my friend who I can't mention on the podcast who works in AI defence that it was faked because the teabag to the ear.
The ballistics would have left a blue black mark against his face because the projectile was simply passed, would have passed so close to the face, that there would have been a burn simply by the velocity and the heat of the projectile.
There is no mark against his face.
He touched his ear.
And even more tellingly, all the footage of him lately, there's no missing tissue on the ear.
Which means they bumped off that kid, but the polls were going very down.
So my friends who are in defence, and I can't say who.
Hi, darling, in Melbourne, is that Marga got who they wanted.
It is apropos of this episode.
Margaret got who they wanted with old mate.
Vance, and that's who's going to be here.
Also, now we're at the story and that's what I'm leading into.
Probably the best hair since a David Bowie video.
Does everyone know who this beautiful young man is?
No, who is it?
This is Michael Booth.
He's only 32.
He plays spirit in the script.
And let me tell you the story, because it's quite significant to anyone who's who remembers Clause 28 or indeed the AIDS crisis.
Michael is very out and popular and fun, apparently, just a lovely young man and a great witch, even at 32.
Also thighs.
Hello.
Look at the silver.
And again, the best hair ever.
Um, he had a pretty good career.
He was a busy lad, but, um, But honestly, um, he was doing theatre stuff and small parts, but this is his most significant role because on the 30th of April 1990, which is about the time when I 1st started going to bars, um, he was walking home, and I'm sorry about this, he was walking home from a dinner party, um, passing Elthorne Park in Hanwell, in um, West London that, um, Brendan might remember because he was lived in London, and he was really brutally beaten by 6 young men and he able he was able to give the police a report but died um a couple of days later from the injuries.
The crime is still unresolved and unsolved to this day.
But dear Michael Booth's murder prompted a march by 100s and 100s of queer people, and it was the 1st of its kind, demanding better policing for the community.
And this march triggered the formation of both outrage, which you might have heard about. which was a, you know, like the 1st thing that there.
And the lesbian and gay police association.
And it's and Michael is recognised to this day as being pivotal in the major turning point for minority activism in Britain of all kinds, not just queer.
Wow.
And it's really horrible.
But God, he's lovely.
That's horrific.
It is.
Sorry to put a downer on it.
But it is really significant.
And this is his only television role that I know of.
I'll look I'll look him up on.
I was just going to say he looks like a very pretty Gelfling all grown up.
He's stunning.
He got that really interesting, as you say, orphan, and it's a perfect 70s bowie era face.
He's made for film.
Absolutely.
I don't know why he didn't have a bigger career.
I hope he was just busy having a great time. very attractive man.
Yeah, beautiful, beautiful.
And, and, you know, I think also, and, yeah, you...
This map painting.
But where is Paul?
He's gonna just walk off the edge. disco his way out of it, I'd say.
You know, I think I've seen him in other things.
I think I've seen him in other people, but this is actually maybe my favourite bit where Nick Tate goes, fuck this.
I'm taking all these people up to rip the shit out of the aristocracy.
Like he's starting a revolution, which I think is pretty awesome.
Yeah, so upstairs and eat the red.
Yeah, let's go upstairs and kill those fuckers.
Well, I want those light fishings.
Yeah, they're very period, aren't they, Richard?
Oh, on the floor as well.
Yeah, what's stunning?
That's LT.
Oh, what's the...
Anyway, it's the Italian, but I can look it up for you. pretend to be a Gene Marsh in Battlefield.
Yes.
Well, what I did find...
Just had it pressed.
Just go on.
What I did find interesting about watching this one is, um, Helena, Paul, Alan, all get their own plots.
Yeah, yeah.
They're all doing things.
They're all moving the plot along in some way, shape or form.
And it's actually, you know, um, Koenig and, uh, Victor, who are kind of locked in a room and and, but still getting good scenes because they're getting the good dialogue while the plot's being driven by by these three.
They're mostly just discovering what's happening and the actions being divided among everyone else.
That is so stunning. costume himself.
That Matt painting looks like Duck Dodgers.
Yeah, it really does, doesn't it?
wonderful.
Yeah, come on, Nick.
These fuckers.
Only from his hand comes live.
Yes, exactly. that's him.
Yeah, there's the guy with big hair.
This this bit with Alan bringing them up.
Um, up to where, you know, the commanders are.
This is the bit I was thinking of when I mentioned Metropolis earlier.
Yeah.
Because, you know, that happens at the beginning of the film and then in a bigger way towards the end.
Now, is this the only space 999 Joan does?
Yes.
Okay, right.
I thought there was another one, but then I thought, no, I'm thinking of Catherine Shell being a guest star before she's a regular.
Well, she is in Guardians of Period.
Yes, yes, yeah. just getting the 2 confused.
What is this?
It's a gun, but that's not important right now.
So were they stunned?
Were those people, like, I don't kind of get what's happening.
We got a shot of the people at the desk. and they have their heads down and they're not doing anything.
Is that just because they're not being paid to do anything?
Because later on they seem to be conscious.
They haven't had their kidneys.
See, yeah, I read that as these are people we are, you know, we've just killed and they're like we're about to harvest their organs because it's sort of just...
No, no, no, not the people on the table later.
Those people, those 2 people sitting at the desk not doing anything.
I, I, I, I think Paul's stunned them because he's just stunned summit out the corridor here.
Yeah, it's very attractive man.
Probably.
But now they're back.
They're reading some paper.
Australian.
Here, have a piece of paper.
Okay.
They do get through a lot of paper.
If you're listening, Darling Tony Bird, there is a lot of chair porn in this episode.
Yeah, there really is.
And lighting porn, and...
I think we should all be wearing suits like that.
What do you reckon?
Yeah, bring it back.
Speak for yourself.
I was doing that last weekend.
I know, but crotch trash, just putting it out there.
I know, it's a thing.
And there's Joe getting handled by man.
Lots of talcum powder.
That's just giant.
Oh, awesome.
Like nude people on the table.
We're kind of back to...
What's that episode of Matt Smith and...
What, the gangers?
Reese Schusmith?
Oh, no.
Sleep no more.
Yeah, is that that one?
Yeah, it's not right, Smith, though.
Folding.
Oh, is it?
The gangbanger's two-part.
Gangbanger.
So Helen is the only one who's allowed to wear...
Oh, darling, it's pretty short.
It is pretty short.
Stop complaining, Babs.
Stop complaining you're being slut limited.
I think it's pretty... like, seriously.
Do as I say, all right, going to give you the back of my hand?
Again.
Sorry, I'm just still stunned by slut limit.
I need to use that in my day-to-day.
Don't you limit me?
Yeah, no, no, no.
A lot.
So we're riding babs out of the rest of the episode at this point.
It's going to take her 12 hours to recover, so she's going to be useless.
She'll just turn up for the pre-credits.
She'll turn up for the terrible, there's a sort of, there is a crap joke of a kind. at the end.
Richard, did you say this was January 74 or 1775. 1st one of 75.
So it's entirely possible that Johnny Byrne has seen the Ark in Space episode 2.
It really.
She is reviving.
She's not too far gone.
Yes, and so now we discover the other thing is that they also chop the survivors of floor 7 up.
So the mutants get eaten and the people who are bred, get their organs harvested.
Yes.
Yeah.
Oh, again, last weekend, which one?
That's really creepy the way they all sort of go.
LOL there.
They all sort of suddenly move to the side as well.
Like they're not quite dead.
Or their guest dancers on the 2 Ronnies.
Look at Joan going, I can't tell you how long it took to get this headdress to match the painting.
Hello, she said...
She's had 100s of years now.
It's been 900 years.
That's how old she is.
I' so bored.
But that's it.
They're the gods, you know, they're immortal.
They feed on people.
That is so boring.
Also, this guy.
And also, ABBA.
Yeah, yeah, it's another...
Benny, there's Benny.
There's always a Benny and a Bjorn. not going to go well, Bjorn.
No.
He actually looks Scandawige.
I think he's kind of cute in his 70s way.
Get out of my way, bitch.
Oh, it's not going to go well. don't think it's going to go well for Darius either.
He's just points, you know, fame in.
They never end up well on science fiction shows. name for people, though, the Darien.
The Dariens.
Yeah.
What would you prefer, the Durwoods?
Just like Mission of the Darrens.
Yeah, that's good reason.
Very Australian name.
Darian.
I do also wonder if the novellas that eventually became dancers at the end of time might have been an influence for this because that tells the story of a small group of humans having survived until the end of the world and they have massive powers and they never really discuss what happened to everyone else.
Right, okay.
And indeed, we never find out.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what I mean about that.
Yeah, but looking great.
Suddenly just such a rippish shirt.
Most people didn't look like that in the 70s.
I was there and I was looking.
They didn't.
The hottest guys, the biggest guys looked like Nick Tate.
They really did.
Yeah, and now Nick's here overthrowing the society because he doesn't know the prime directives because it's a completely different show.
Yes, that's right.
And he's Australian. couldn't give a damn.
I love this.
Throw Nieman through the alco pod.
Oh no.
You are not a god.
You are merely a cunt.
Also Why would a little bit of acrylic kill you?
Yeah, it's it's some poetic justice.
Poetic justice.
Acrylic plus poetic justice.
Also, messy DNA in your hair.
Well, I really want to take the...
Does happen though, doesn't it?
I really want to take the piss.
Pampers ever.
But Joan actually really makes it believable.
Yeah, she's awesome.
Yeah, yeah, I really want to.
I really want to bring it down, but I finding it hard not to.
I mean, hard to.
I mean, okay, but there's that super fine line between Sirius and piss take.
And there we define Ms. Collins career.
But...
Also, what I think is...
Super interesting is it's like a 1000000 years of civilisation, you sort of think, so fucking what?
Look at you now.
Do you know what I mean?
You're a bunch of sort of fay pathetic losers who keep eating people.
Pretty cool. metaphor for neoliberalism.
You've been ending your civilisation for the last 900 years.
Oh, yeah.
Eating people.
Also, we should mention if the dear listener hasn't listened to our other stuff.
Joan Collins is a very proud and out Tory supporter and still is to the point that she considers that the labour election is the worst thing to happen to the UK in many years.
Oh, that's her reason to think that.
And our right to take the piss. that's right.
Also great hair, John.
Awesome.
And she's kind of fabulous and a 1000000 years old.
I was going to say, she's been pretty great so far.
She can't be perfect in every record.
No, well, it's just, she has, you know.
No, but now is she gonna, is she gonna bone?
She's absolutely boning up for a bang, darling. 900 years, darling. up for a bang.
Not met you before, darling.
Let's go slow me up.
Really, I've been dealing with a lot of girls in frocks and now's your...
So what happens now?
They all bang.
But what are they eating?
Victor?
So we get this thing where it's just like...
They're eating whatever the poor people were eating.
Yeah, what were the poor people eating?
Oh, the trees.
No, the trees.
There was bird and chop.
And yeah, we go to the empty chair. empty churn.
You know, we are actually acknowledging the red shirt.
Yeah.
And perhaps she's in a handmaid's tail blanky because she's had a day.
She's been so startled by everything that's gone. didn't really have all that much happened to her.
They put her in a, in a Barbarilla fur bikini dress.
They did remove one of her kidneys.
Oh did they?
And Joan ate it.
It was just her last one.
It was just like, okay, like, I know that we should stop the cannibalism, but do we have to do it today?
Yeah.
Yes.
And that's how you create the middle class.
Who are the appointees for Trump's new?
Secretary.
This week?
have to remember.
So entertaining.
I can smell your lever from here.
Yes.
Well, I thought that was actually pretty great.
And I think, you know, coming back to what Richard was saying about our real world politics.
It's pretty great because on the surface, you go, this is completely ridiculous.
And then you go, except, yeah, this is kind of what politics is.
This is kind of what classism is.
And that's what good sci-fi does.
Yeah.
I mean, it's sort of fairly obvious, but it is the rich people eat poor people kind of metaphor and it's absolutely a thing.
Well, kind of capitalism.
Yeah, absolutely. interesting that the early 70s was so concerned.
Well, we didn't have climate change.
We called it ecology.
Yes.
But everything I was watching on TV that was set in any time other than the present talked about the dystopian future of the planet until Spielberg and Lucas and the 1980s when suddenly everything was fine again because we had Reagan and Thatcher.
But, and the sense, well, the sensibility that refused to acknowledge what might have been happening in the larger world.
But it's interesting that the Brits, right from gosh, when pre-war, and again, I'm thinking Aldous and Huxley, but really everybody that was writing any kind of speculative fiction, it wasn't cheerful, even if we look at kids stuff like the White Mountains, which I mentioned because the keynote theme, when you saw the model was from that TV series, The White Mountains, because it was all library music, for this one.
What did you think?
Like, I thought, yeah, like it's grotesque and stuff.
But the thing, and I think I said this before, the thing about Space 1999 that I really like. is the bleakness and hostility of the costume verse. of Barbara's acting.
And I meant Orwell and Huxley.
In that sense, this is truer science fiction.
Yeah.
And a lot of what has come afterwards, including Star Trek, including a lot of Doctor Who.
Most big blockbusters, not really science fiction, that traditional sense.
No, but this is...
It acknowledges what's going on.
The generational starship.
You've got the metaphor.
And you've got also it's time, like the huge lengths of time.
You know, that message has been going out for 900 years that there's still...
How long have we been doing this podcast?
9 years, 11 years or 900 years?
Very long time.
And I just love that.
I think there's a bleakness to this that we do lose a bit, I think, in...
I find Joan immensely convincing.
Oh, she's wonderful. that she's been around for...
How long is it?
900 years.
It's taken her that long to perfect the eye make, I would think.
They spent a lot of time in those velvetures getting that right.
This is nowhere near as crap as I remember.
No, no, no, no.
And I think I think it's because the idea starts from a very serious premise.
And once you start with that serious premise.
Like the actors taking it seriously, as you were saying, Richard, you can become ridiculous.
I'm wearing it now.
But because you have that strong core.
And I did watch it and think, oh, this is really good and it has things to say, but it's so messy, knowing it was written in less than a week.
Okay, that explains it.
And in a way, I'm then like, I'm glad they didn't take another week because instead of having, say, something like Alpha Child, which is very focussed, you know, and is telling one story, but is it necessarily applicable to the wider world?
Not really.
We have this, which is massive and sprawling and loads of timescales and says things about human morality that other episodes don't necessarily.
And we only had that because it was an emergency.
And we have a script that gives everyone something to do, which is pretty great.
But on the other hand, alpha child does have Julian Glover's thighs.
Yeah that's true.
Surprise puts up a very good 2nd...
All right.
Well, what do you think?
Thighs in space pretty much.
I think that we have some things to plug.
Do we?
That's a podcast to talk about.
And some podcast to talk about.
Matt, we'll do the plugging later when I press stop on the recording.
So coming up next from the three-handed game, which is out this weekend, is the 2nd part of the pop explosion with Build a Better Mousetrap, the Kathy Gale episode.
Okay, which has Professor Amelia Rumford and the other one.
Alfie Alfie Sayer, who turns up.
Yeah, in Amanda Idro, sorry.
But I want to say the bird from Caesar Doom because it's pretty much the same thing.
It's really us.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's it's me and Brendan.
It's a big talk.
It's too old ladies and a motorcycle bank.
Yes, brilliant.
Hilarious, he ins Hughes.
It's pretty good, actually. better than I put a thought, yeah.
And over on the BJBJ game show, next week we will be talking about a vivid lope.
Which is about a vivid antelope.
I think we've already established.
Well, rabbits, but yes.
Okay, all right.
Yes, all right.
Young people.
Geometrical rabbits.
So on Flight 3 Entirety, we will be releasing...
Tomorrow, we will be releasing the series 10, retrospective, as we head to...
No, no, no.
That's the full retrospective on New Year's Day.
And that's our 3rd last episode before we wind up for a little while and you all have to move over to 500yearDiary.com. com.
But apart from that, I think that's all we have to plunk.
By the time our next episode of Startling Barbara Bain comes out.
Yeah, the 1st episode of series D of Maximum Pat 6 will be out on the 21st of December.
Gouta Prime Day.
Yes, for those of you who celebrate.
Yes, and I'll be getting right onto editing that any minute now.
Can I also please mention?
Yes.
Today is the 49th anniversary of the original broadcast in the UK of the episode Earthbound of Space 1979 with the lovely Roy Dutrece's commissioner Simmons.
Wonder what happened to him.
So this UK order is quite confusing for me because we haven't done earthbound yet.
Yet it's meant to be episode 2 or three.
Right, yeah.
And this is their, this really was their Christmas episode.
It was meant to be. you know, they're panto and I think they succeeded.
They absolutely did.
So I'm looking forward to that one.
But yeah, 49 years ago today when we were recording.
Brilliant.
All right.
So all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember that though it might be exciting to receive a dinner invitation from Joan Collins, the best course of action might be to decline politely.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Or at least bring a toothpick.
Oh, James.
James.